# Bellabeat: How Can a Wellness Technology Company Play it Smart?

Tableau Dashboard
Tableau Presentation to Skateholders

## Introduction

In this case study I will be using the six steps of the data analysis process to complete a senerio. 

Ask
Prepare
Process
Analyze
Act

## Background

Bellabeat is a high-tech manufacturere of health-focused products for women. They are a successful small company looking to expand into the global market of smart devices. The cofounder and CEO, Urška Sršen wants the analyst team to analyze smart device fitness data to gain insight into how custombers use non-Bellabeat smart devices so that she and the marketing team can use those insights to unlock new growth opportunities. 

Deliverables:
1. *A clear summary of the business task*
2. *A description of all data sources used*
3. *Documentation of any cleaning or manipulation of data*
4. *A summary of analysis*
5. *Supporting visualizations and key finding*
6. *Top high-level content recommendatiaons based on the analysis*

## 1.  Ask

#### **Business Task: Analyze FitBit Fitness Tracker Data to gain insights into how customers utilitze fitness trackers and discover trends and insights for the Bellabeat marketing team.**

Primary Stakeholders: Urška Sršen and Sando Mur, Bellabeat's executive team

Secondary Stakeholders: Bellabeat's marketing team

## 2.  Prepare

Data Source: A public domain dataset available on Kaggle of FitBit Tracker Data
  - The Data is stored in 18 csv files
  - Generated by 30 FitBit users who consented to the use of their personal data
  - The data tracks user's activity bewteen 12 March 2016 to 12 May 2016
  - Data collected inluded physical activity recorded in minutes, heart rate, count of steps per day, daily activity, and sleep monitoring.
  
Does this data set hold up to ROCCC?
  - Reliable: **Yes/No.** Besides the weight input all of the data in this set is set by the device and not the users which makes the data more reliable on a individual data point level. However the data set is also very small with only 30 individual participants which is not going to give us a reliable insight into trends of the majority of fitness tracker users. 
  - Original: **Yes.** The dataset is original, using data directly from FitBit users. 
  - Comprehensive: **Yes.** While the small sample size is still a concern here, the amount of different activity tracked is a comprehensive set of the features of fitness trackers, including the features that Bellabeat is interested in. 
  - Current: **No.** This data is from 2016 which at this point is a full 7 years ago. In the past decade the access to fitness trackers has continued to increase, as well as the ways in which they are used have changed, especially since 2020. <sub><sup>(It would be fascinating to compare FitBit data from 2020, 2023, and this 2016 data to see how usage had changed.)</sup></sub>
  - Cited: **Yes.** The datasets were generated by respondents to a survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk where they consented to the use of their personal data. The data is stored in Kaggle and made available through Mobius.

Limitations of the dataset:
 - As mentioned above there are only 30 individuals in this dataset. According to a 2020 survey by Pew Research, 1 in 5 (21%) of adults use fitness trackers. The survey had 4,272 respondants. While a statistical analysis can be done with 30 individuals using the t test and assuming standard deviation, however a better analysis could be done with a larger sample size. 
- Within the dataset itself the weight log is unuasable as only 8 participants recorded their weight data and of those 5 of them entered their weight manually (the other 3 used wifi connected devices) which can lead to high levels of unreliability. 
- This data also lacks reported gender identity. Bellabeat's business model is tailored specifically to women and without the data we cannot know if women use fitness trackers differently than men. While the data analysis will likely be useful without gender information it would be even more beneficial to Bellabeat to have gender as a part of the study. 

Structure of the Data:
  - Most of this dataset is considered long data since each row is one time point for each user and each user has multiple rows.
  - Each user has a unique ID.

Using Excel I created pivot tables to get a snapshot of each table:

| Table | Users | Days | Values Included |
|-------|-------|------|-----------------|
| Daily Activity | 33 | 31 | Steps, Distance, Intensities, and Calories |
| Daily Calories | 33 | 31 | Calories |
| Daily Intensities | 33 | 31 | Distance and Minutes of Sedentary, light, and Active intensity |
| Daily Steps | 33 | 31 | Steps total |
| Heartrate Seconds | 7 | 31 | heartrate log per minute |
| Hourly Steps | 33 | 31 | Total steps per hour |
| Hourly Calories | 33 | 31 | Total calories burned per hour |
| Hourly Intensities | 33 | 31 | Total and average intensities per hour | 
| Minute Calories Narrow | 33 | 31 | Calories burned per minute (each minute in a single row) |
| Minute Calories Wide | 33 | 31 | Calories burned per minute (each minute in a single column) |
| Minute Intensities Narrow | 33| 31 | Intensities by minute (each minute in a single row) |
| Minute Intensities Wide | 33 | 31 | Intensities by minute (each Minute in a single column |
| Minute METs Narrow | 27 | 31 | Ratio of energy used in physical activity vs energy used at rest |
| Minute Sleep | 24 | 31 | Sleep log by minute with unspecified value |
| Minute Steps Narrow | 33 | 31 | Steps tracked by minute (Every minute in single row) |
| Minute Steps Wide | 33 | 31 | Steps tracked by minute (each minute in a single column) |
| Sleep Day | 24 | 31 | Sleep logged by how many sleeps, minutes asleep, and total time in bed |
| Weight Log| 8 | 31 | Weight track in Kg and Lbs. 5 users reported manually, 3 users used other methods of reporting |

Since the weight log and heartrate tables have so few participants I have decided not to use those, as well as the minute sleep table. 

With the business task in mind, I'm going to focus on the Daily Activity, Daily sleep, and hourly steps tables. 

## 3.  Process

